Aright, in this section, we're gonna
take a little closer look at Docker
images. We're gonna get into a lot of
very important stuff. In this section, the
content, that's ahead of you in this
video, is very important. This is
absolutely core to your understanding of
Docker so that you have any doubt about
what I cover in this, rewatch this again.
So we're gonna cover a lot of very
important stuff about Docker Images and
what they are. Me, being a Java developer,
a great analogy about Docker Images, they
are like your class file, that you
define in Java, and at the end of that,
when the class file's running, it went
it's been instantiate in the JVM. An
instance of that class file is kind of
like a Docker Container. So a Docker
Image could be a great analogy, as like a
class file in Java, versus an instance
running as a container. So, I had... Please
pay attention. I got a lot of great content
coming up in the slide deck. Okay! Let's
talk about Docker Images. Okay, Docker image
is really what defines the Docker
container runtime. I kind of think of it, as
like a snapshot of VM. So you're gonna
make a, have a running VM or something
that you instantiate a VM from depending
on the platform you're on. That would be
like a Docker Image. For people coming
from a Java background, it's kind of like
the class versus an instance of a
class, where the class would be the
Docker Image, and an instance of the
class would be at runtime in a container.
The key concept that we need to talk
about is that images are immutable. So
once they are built, the files making up
an image do not change. So you can't swap
things out. You can't change things.
Unlike a VM, where you can snapshot the
VM, you can go in and change it, and
update it, and then save that snapshot
again, and start that VM up from that
snapshot, the image file is
considered an immutable in Docker.
This is a very important concept because
a lot of stuff is
built up around us. Now, images are built in
layers. This is kind of a weird
concept to get around, but it's effectively a
immutable file. So, an image is gonna have
multiple files in it, and these layers
are going to have basically a collection of
files and directories inside of them. But
the layers will receive an ID, and
that ID is calculated using a SHA 256
hash of the layer contents so that
hash value becomes the identifier of a
layer. So if the layer ever changes,
the contents change in that layer, you
have to start off and get a new hash. So
that hash is tied to the contents
of the layer. Now, here's an example. I've
gone in and working with the Mongo image.
I did a command. I put it on the screen
at the bottom of their docker image
inspect mongo. At the very end, we get
to see the layers that are making up
that Mongo image. So, we got a, what is
that, about a half dozen eight of them or
so in there that make up that Mongo
image. So these are a series of files, and
each one of those files, the layer has
its own SHA 256 identifier. This is a
hash of contents of that particular
layer. Now, this plays into how image Ids
are calculated. So, the image Ids are also
a hash value, that are derived from the
layers. So, if the layers change and the
hash value of the image also changes. So
that this very very important to
understand how these are calculated
because these are truly immutable. So if
you change any of the contents, that
images and image Id is going to change.
Now, when you see stuff going on inside a
Docker, you're gonna see an image ID.
That is actually the first 12
characters of the hash. So I have an
example here up on the screen of image
Ids and if you do the command docker
images -q and no trunc, you get the
full
SHA-256 value of the hash. But if you
just do Docker Images and list it, you
can see there, in the lower part of the
screen, the image ID is listed, which is
really the first 12 characters of the
hash value. Now, to make things easier, we
use tag names. So, the hash values can be
assigned a human readable tag. This
can get a little confusing because of
the format and some of the things that
are inferred. But it's kind of like an IP
address versus a domain name. So, we're
gonna have something, that's human
readable, and that makes sense to us as
people versus over this long string of
characters, that only makes sense to a
computer. So, here's an example, where
I use that same command again, the docker
images -q --no-trunc, to get the
full hash value of the image. But I can
see, if I just do docker images under
repository, that tag value is named
mongo, and it relates to that image ID.
Now the image tag names, this is very
important, when we're working with them.
The full tag name is the registry host,
[REGISTRYHOST/][USERNAME/]NAME[:TAG]. Now for the
Registry Host, if you don't specify at
"registry.hub.docker.com" is inferred.
So it becomes up the default value, the
same with the latest tag. So, the latest
tag is commonly used, but it's rarely
specified. So when we do a list under
repository, Mongo actually refers to
registry.hub.docker.com/mongo or
that's a name colon latest. Now of course,
I can override these. If I were running
my own Docker registry at
springframework.guru, it would be listed there
as springframework.guru/mongo:latest
I can tag those with
specific versions and this becomes
important later down the road,
where you're doing deployments. It's
pretty common to use the latest tag, as
you're moving up through environments.
But, you might want a specific version. So
when you start working with Docker,
that's gonna get a little confusing at
first because you're only seeing these
values where everything is inferred, but
when you start using it for real, you're
gonna be dealing with actual registry
host and actual tag values. So you'll
get comfortable at first, just
saying, "Hey, I wanna run a Mongo
instance". By default, it's gonna go
out to the Docker registry host and
bring down the latest tag for you, even
though you didn't specify those.
Alright, that was a deep dive into Docker
Images -- how they are created, how they are set up.
The image layers is a very important
concept. In the next video, we are
gonna take a closer look at how those
images, those image layers work between
the two things. We're gonna
introduce you to the concept of the
Docker File. Docker File is the recipe of
how to build a docker image, so we're
gonna get into that, into the next
video.